HackBio Fellowship program
Biotech level tech
+ cutting edge skills on biotech education (Are we going to learn all this skills).

+ Bioinformatics; Biology & Informatics 
Genomics -- Functional genomics ; Genome data scientist.
** Nucleotide sequence; 

Drug development -- Fuse transcriptomics with drug development.

Programming for biology -- 

Junior bioinformatics role with at least, 2 years research experience in Academia or industry.

15/March/2021
I have a different time zone, and I have to go for normal classes... What are other options available?

would you advice a basic

R studio
Biocmanager
ape



Since you said it will be graded\

16/March/2021
Molecular Genetics:
Traits can be functional or structural depending on the protein being expressed from the DNA.
Prokaryotes --- It is transcribed directly to mRNA.

Eukaryotes -- Transcribed mRNA is usually not mature during copying pf the DNA, it has to undergo post transcriptional modification.

Differential gene expression in Transcriptomics; is the involvement of histone markers... 

Exons are coding region while introns are non-coding region -- they are primary transcript... 
The introns are spliced off... to become a mature mRNA.

The denatured nature of the protein is also referred to as primary structure.

Translation is a cyclic, multistep process (what do you mean).

What is the relationship between genes and traits?
the answer '''' Genes--- Proteins---- Traits.

GENOMICS
Basic Local Alignment Search Tool (BLAST) 
The search for similarity: Sequence ALignment.
WE compare 2 sequences (pairwise alignment- PSA) 3 or more sequences (multiple sequence alignment - MSA (it uses ClusterW method).

PSA: Local vs Global Search
Local: attempts to align only the regions of similarity between the target and the query sequence (?). -- Smith Waterman Algorithm
Global: attempts to align the entire target sequence with query sequence -- Needleman-Wunsch ALgorithm.

Gap is the region of differences between the target sequence and query sequence.

Smith waterman: is a non-negative scoring local alignment that aims to identify the most similar path between 2 sequences. You align the score
Needleman-Wunsch is a negative scoring global alignment that aims to assign an alignment score to every possible input query.
SCORING MATRIX (read more)
Dynamic programming (read more)

Applications & Case Studies
1. comparative genomics and phylogenetics -- paternity testing
2. Function Prediction
3. Motif search
4. Genome Assembly

Tool Dev: How do we store genomic data
1. FASTA
2. FASTQ
3. SAM (SAMTOOLS)
4. BAM
5. BED

Functional Genomics: Transcriptomics and Epigenomics
Transcriptome is the complete set of the RNA transcript. The Transcriptome data is achieved by RNA-Seq or microarray. RNA-seq is both quantitative and qualitative
The popular transcript types include MRNA, Non-coding RNA-- Long non-coding RNA, Enhancer, Micro RNA, SiRNA, Small nucleolar RNA.
Constructing the transcriptome: Methods
* What is QC (Quality Control) -- The general data analysis pipeline

Programming for life sciences
The commonmark is the language you use in writing the readme repository???

Are you saying linux is preferable than Windows?

What is pseudobin (linux file system root directory)

Is it okay to download the linux on a laptop that uses window... I mean having two users with differnt OS.

I noticed you are using the bash for commands (is that the linux file system)

Genomics
Tools for sequence aligning -- MAFFT(fOR LARGE DATABASE), 

BLAST AND 

MEGA --Molecular Evolutionary Genetics Analysis (fOR GRAPHICAL ALIGNMENT), Circlus on R (not needed to download)

 
use muscle (this is faster) or clustalW algorithms
save as mega format
phylogeny -- use upgma tree or open tree session


You mentioned MAFFT for large database... How do you easily figure out the exact match? 

Do we need to install mega?

Genomics
Proteomics and Protein Bioinformatics
Prrotein doesn't function by itself... It usually associate with other protein.

Basic Tools for interacting with functional genomics and proteomics.
NCBI --
MAFFT for visualization of sequencing analysis (For large data set) --
nano is a text editor on linus os
PDB/Protein databank -- to characterise protein and methods
Clustal Omega/PSA/MSA
MegaX or Mega7/Phylogeny

Protein Sequences:
EGFR --- Epidermal growth factor receptor -- It is a transmembrane in the protein
Objective: is to collect egfr from 5 different species
Fish --- Toad --- Lizards --- Birds --- Man
We look at the conserved regions-- variable region -- If mutation occurred(Which region) -- Functional pockets of this protein.

Functional genomics 
Slack on Melyssa Minto

Transcriptomics
For genes submitted to Sequence Read archives (SRA) or genomics database

create a table for stable 
Use FastQ dump for  SRA
Download WINSCP -- for windows (It is a virtual flashdrive)

Homework -- Generate FastQreport

Programming for life science
Types of computing problems
1. Tightly coupled-- results are sequential
2. parallel -- results are not sequential; Bioinformaticians uses this


Genomics

QUAST -- IS FOR CHECKIN

Install Ugene 
TAsk...
Consurf server
Make one of the lowest taxa the reference sequence-- Use drosophilia -- 
Count the Location of the differences?
Use consurf server; Check if the differences occured in the variable region? if the differences occured in the Conserved region?
Find out-- If the mutation

NeuroTranscriptomics






